hi I'm Father Mark Mary with the
Franciscan friers of the renewal and
this is the Rosary in year podcast we
through prayer and meditation the rosary
brings us deeper into relationship with
Jesus and Mary and becomes a source of
Grace for the whole world the Rosary in
the year is brought to you by Ascension
this is day one I am profoundly humbled
and Overjoyed that you're joining me on
day one of this year-long journey we're
going to be doing with Ros in the year
podcast is learning how to pray with the
truths of our faith this is all going to
be at the service of receiving in the
fullness of the grace that they offer
including but not limited to entering
into a profound Union with the Most Holy
Trinity Father Son and Holy Spirit and
all of this with the Blessed Mother our
lady in the announcement episode the
very first episode that we released we
talked about why this podcast exists and
how it's like taking the time to absorb
all that a major Basilica like St
Peter's in Rome has to offer today I
want to give a quick overview of how
we're going to do that and then Dive
Right into talking about prayer and what
we call practicing the presence of God
really encountering the Lord and really
encountering Jesus in prayer the Rosary
in a year podcast will have a six-phase
structure the first phase is called
forming the relationship and that's what
we'll begin discussing today in Greater
detail working this basic movement of
prayer like raising the mind and the
heart to God the second phase it's
called the biblical roots of the Rosary
and this will be like a guided tour
again a pilgrimage through St Peter's
Basilica multiple times beginning with
you know art history Professor then a
priest in other words there's going to
be formation regarding what the prayers
or the scripture passages associated
with the Mysteries actually mean like we
answer the questions like what's
actually happening why is it important
in general then another Movement Like
homes through all the Mysteries which
explain okay why is it important to me
and how do I apply this to my
life the third phase is called
meditating on the Mysteries and we'll
have an introduction and guided practice
of lexio deina we'll pray with writings
from the Saints on the different
Mysteries and then do what's called Vio
deina we'll look at and pray with sacred
art depicting the different Mysteries of
the
Rosary the fourth phase is called
finding focus and here we're going to
Pivot a little bit and we'll begin
really applying what we have been
receiving we're going to build up our
capacity to recall and to pray with the
different Mysteries beginning with just
one decade at a time phase five is
called building up the decades and we'll
be doing exactly what it says slowly
adding the amount of decades we're going
to be praying together at once from one
decade to two decades three decades four
decades and then finally we'll have
built this muscle of prayer for phase
six and this phase six the the last and
final phase we'll be praying the full
Rosary together applying what we've
learned together receiving The Graces
for ourselves and even more importantly
praying together for an outpouring of
Grace upon the whole world that's the
pilgrimage we'll be making together with
the Rosary in year
podcast but now today I like this
episode day one of the Rosary in year
podcast to be more than just an
introduction to the syllabus as you
might have in the first day of class
like let's actually get started with a
basic introduction to
prayer and prayer as practicing the
presence of God the catechism of the
Catholic church in the section on prayer
it says it is most important that the
heart should be present to him to whom
we are speaking in prayer whether or not
our prayer is heard depends not on the
number of words but on the fervor of our
souls praying the rosary right it's not
just about saying prayers it's about
raising our minds and our hearts to God
so what does this mean like what does it
mean to raise our mind to God to raise
our mind to God In Prayer it's an Act of
Faith it's an Act of Faith by which we
look at him who is always looking at us
it is a moment of recognizing that we
are not
alone that God is with us looking at us
listening to us and loving us at all
times prayer
and raising our minds to God is our
response to this
reality to raise our minds To God In
Prayer it also includes just looking at
him pondering who he is and what he's
done for us and what it means for
us and this is what we're going to be
doing for a large part throughout the
Rosary in year podcast but today we're
going we're going to focus on what we
could call like practicing the presence
of God just recognizing who he is
and that he is with
us sometimes when we pray we we move
like really quickly into saying our
prayers into our reading into our
meditating and it can too easily become
just a personal solitary project but
prayer is always we could say a group
project at the very least between me and
God with God and His grace doing the
heaven
lifting so when we pray We Begin by
looking at him by ack knowledging him
and recognizing his
presence for example like you don't just
pick up a phone dial the number and then
start talking you pick up the phone dial
the number wait for the other person to
say hello and then you start talking but
too often like we don't take the time to
wait for God to say hello to connect
with him we just start talking and it
becomes again a monologue sometimes just
to
ourselves and so practicing the presence
of God beginning Prayer by raising our
minded heart to God in one way could
just be looking at him hearing him say
hello and then we enter into our prayer
or meditation as we have planned it for
that
moment okay so how do we actually do
this what does it look
like first we need to just slow down for
a
second maybe take a couple of deep
breaths and then we're going to receive
his
presence we don't produce his presence
he is always present to us so we receive
his presence and there's a lot of space
for personalizing this for what works
for you you know traditionally we begin
with the sign of the
cross and as we're making the sign of
the cross we're recognizing that Father
Son and Holy Spirit are present to
us this can be looking at some sort of
sacred art religious image of Our
Lord or maybe in your imagination you
have a place of prayer that you go to
this could be a chapel for some it's a
garden for some there's like a what we
call a Hermitage
within or one of my favorites is to use
a word of scripture like making your own
Jesus's own words to his father in John
11 father I thank you for hearing me I
know that you always hear me and again
all of this is at the service of
receiving his presence which what we
classically talk about as practicing the
presence of
God and this is something that as we are
praying the Ros we do at the beginning
and we receive his presence we recognize
that we are not alone Emanuel God Is
With Us looking at us listening to us
loving
us and we also raise our minds to God by
meditating on the words we're praying
and by contemplating the different
Mysteries of the
Rosary and I'll just quick note on
raising our hearts to
God giving our heart to God is to give
our very selves to God like the heart
it's the whole
self if we're to get a little bit
particular for a moment though it's more
a movement of our will than our emotions
though it may affect our emotional
life looking at Jesus maybe using
art there's this movement of the heart
of the will of I love you Jesus thank
you Jesus help me
Jesus Save Me
Jesus or maybe you might be making this
prayer this movement of the heart on
behalf of the world or of a loved one
like have mercy on us Jesus help us
Jesus heal us Jesus give us your peace
Jesus and so in short to raise our minds
and our hearts to God is to receive his
presence to look at him to recognize
him to receive that he knows us and is
looking at
us than to give our hearts to him to
give our needs to him to give our
deepest desires to him our fears our
hopes to
him and receive his love his peace his
care his own heart for us and my
brothers and sisters this this is what
prayer is about and this is what praying
the rosary is
about I re recog there's a lot of moving
parts to prayer and praying the rosary
and at first trying to do this well it
might make you feel like somebody who's
never danced a day in their life who's
now in a dance class like you might feel
a little
uncoordinated it might feel kind of a
little difficult or awkward to like move
my heart to God like how do how do I do
that to raise my mind to God and doing
them both at the same time but over time
we'll build this habit together we'll
find the
Rhythm and we'll come to experience for
ourselves why the rosary has become such
a popular and long-standing form of
prayer source of Grace and maker of
saints so my brothers and sisters an
ending each day of phase one we're going
to end with the sign of the cross in our
father three Hill Mar's the glory be and
the sign of the cross and let's end
today by practicing what we've just
talked about raising our minds and our
hearts to God like let's
simply find Jesus like receive his
presence and tell him we love
him and then let's find Mary let's
receive her loving presence her loving
gaze let's tell her we love her
too let us pray in the name of the
father and of the son and of the holy
spirit
amen Our Father who are in heaven
Hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come
thy will be done on Earth as it is in
heaven give us this day our daily bread
and forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us
and lead us not into temptation but
Deliver Us from Evil
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou among women
and blessed is the fruit of thy womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death
amen Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is
with thee blessed art thou th among
women and blessed is the fruit of thy
womb
Jesus holy Mary Mother of God pray for
us sinners now and at the hour of our
death amen glory be to the father and to
the son and to the Holy Spirit as it was
in the beginning is now and ever shall
be World Without End Amen in the name of
the father and of the son and of the
holy
spirit all right thanks for joining me
and praying with me today I look forward
to continuing this journey with you
again tomorrow poco poco friends God
bless y'all